corpus id: 32822296, 

Title: Probability and Statistics for Engineering and the Sciences

Abstract: Technometrics is a journal of statistics in engineering and the sciences, so there would seem to be some obligation to publish reports on books with that content specified in their titles, even those that reappear on a regular basis. This book was reported most recently in its 3rd edition (Ziegel 1992), which provided an update to a positive review of the 2nd edition (Goldman 1988). I was somewhat less enthusiastic, citing the lack of any integration of statistical computing with the statistical pedagogy as a primary deficiency. Even after six editions, this remains a very traditional book. Perhaps that is inevitable for a book that first appeared in 1982. The first third of the book consists of five chapters on probability. The next four chapters deal with point estimation, confidence intervals, and hypothesis testing. There are also four chapters on ANOVA and regression, which carry through the usual content of multiple and polynomial regression. The book concludes with chapters on categorical data analysis, nonparametric statistics, and quality control. Despite its heft, the book omits some significant topics, including design of experiments, nonlinear estimation, reliability, and failure analyses. Introducing these topics is very important for the engineer in a class that may provide the only training in statistics. It should also be mentioned that this book is entirely unsuitable for a desktop reference. Its lack of integration of statistical computing makes it appropriate only for a classroom instruction. The book does show outputs from MINITAB, SAS, and other software. I have not tried to do a comparative study of the large group of introductory statistics books for engineers. Most recently reported among the recycle group was the book by Montgomery et al. (2004) (reported in Ziegel 2004). This book, and its more complete parent version by Montgomery and Runger (2003), recently reviewed by Brill (2004), are used for statistics training for the technologists at BP, with the latter used for the more advanced training classes. The most recent first edition of a book on statistics for engineering was the book by Petrucelli et al. (1999). It was reviewed by Zimmer (2001), who described it as “very comprehensive in its coverage” and “an innovative textbook.”

TLDR: This book was reported most recently in its 3rd edition (Ziegel 1992), which provided an update to a positive review of the 2nd edition (Goldman 1988), which was somewhat less enthusiastic, citing the lack of any integration of statistical computing with the statistical pedagogy as a primary deficiency.

Fields of Study: ['Computer Science', 'Mathematics']

Authors: E. Ziegel

