corpus id: 27208092, 

Title: The Java Programming Language

Abstract: From the Publisher: Co-authored by the creator of the Java technology and an experienced object-oriented developer, The Java (TM)Programming Language, Second Edition, is the definitive resource for all serious Java programmers. This book will give you a solid foundation in Java programming language strategies and techniques. It features a concise introduction to the language; detailed descriptions of Java's commands, constructs, and libraries; and numerous real-world examples that show you how to exploit the language's power, portability, and flexibility. You will find in-depth and progressively advanced coverage of classes and objects, interfaces, exception-handling, threads and multitasking, and packages. In addition, the book describes the Java core library packages, including I/O, standard utilities, language types, and system classes. Thoroughly revised from start to finish, this second edition fully integrate, is the definitive resource for all serious Java programmers. This book will give you a solid foundation in Java programming language strategies and techniques. It features a concise introduction to the language; detailed descriptions of Java's commands, constructs, and libraries; and numerous real-world examples that show you how to exploit the language's power, portability, and flexibility. You will find in-depth and progressively advanced coverage of classes and objects, interfaces, exception-handling, threads and multitasking, and packages. In addition, the book describes the Java core library packages, including I/O, standard utilities, language types, and system classes. Thoroughly revised from start to finish, this second edition fully integrates Java 1.1 into both text and examples. This edition includes the changes introduced in Java 1.1, such as nested classes (including anonymous classes), threading issues, character-based streams, object-serialization, documentation comments, new utility classes, plus internationalization and localization. The book lets you in on the rationale behind Java's design, direct from the language's creator, as well as the tradeoffs involved in using specific features. With these insights, you will have the understanding you need to begin developing Java applications and applets.

TLDR: The Java (TM)Programming Language, Second Edition, is the definitive resource for all serious Java programmers and lets you in on the rationale behind Java's design, direct from the language's creator, as well as the tradeoffs involved in using specific features.

Fields of Study: ['Computer Science']

Authors: K. Arnold, James Gosling

