corpus id: 61425611, 

Title: Discovering Statistics Using Ibm Spss Statistics

Abstract: Unrivalled in the way it makes the teaching of statistics compelling and accessible to even the most anxious of students, the only statistics textbook you and your students will ever need just got better! Andy Field's comprehensive and bestselling Discovering Statistics Using SPSS 4th Edition takes students from introductory statistical concepts through very advanced concepts, incorporating SPSS throughout. The Fourth Edition focuses on providing essential content updates, better accessibility to key features, more instructor resources, and more content specific to select disciplines. It also incorporates powerful new digital developments on the textbook's companion website(visit sagepub.com for more information). WebAssign The Fourth Edition will be available on WebAssign, allowing instructors to produce and manage assignments with their studnets online using a grade book that allows them to track and monitor students' progress. Students receive unlimited practice using a combination of approximately 2000 multiple choice and algorithmic questions. WebAssign provided students with instant feedback and links directly to the accompanying eBook section where the concept was covered, allowing students to find the correct solution. SAGE MobileStudy SAGE MobileStudy allows students equipped with smartphones and tablets to access select material, such as Cramming Sam's Study Tips, anywhere they receive mobile service. With QR codes included throughout the text, it's easy for students to get right to the section they need to study, allowing them to continue their study from virtually anywhere, even when they are away from thier printed copy of the text. Click here to preview the MobileStudy site (available late spring 2013). Education and Sport Sciences instructor support materials with enhanced ones for Psychology, Business and Management and the Health sciences make the book even more relevant to a wider range of subjects across the social sciences and where statistics is taught to a cross-disciplinary audience. Major Updates to the 4th Edition Fully compatible with recent SPSS releases up to and including version 20.0 Exciting new characters, including statistical cult leader Oditi, who provides students access to interesting and helpful video clips to illustrate statistical and SPSS concepts, and Confusious, who helps students clarify confusing quantitative terminology New discipline specific support matierlas have been added for Education, Sports Sciences, Psychology, Business & Management, and Health Sciences, making the book even more relevant to a wider range of subjects across the Social, Behavioral, and Health Sciences is taught to an interdisciplinary audience. An enhanced Companion Website (available late spring 2013) offers a wealth of material that can be used in conjunction with the textbook, including: PowerPoints Testbanks Answers to the Smart Alex tasks at the end of each chapter Datafiles for testing problems in SPSS Flashcards of key concepts Self-assessment multiple-choice questions Online videos of key statistical and SPSS procedures

TLDR: The Fourth Edition of Andy Field's Discovering Statistics Using SPSS 4th Edition focuses on providing essential content updates, better accessibility to key features, more instructor resources, and more content specific to select disciplines.

Fields of Study: ['Computer Science']

Authors: A. Field

