corpus id: 144181374, 

Title: The social psychology of creativity

Abstract: I. Understanding and Assessing Creativity.- 1. The Case for a Social Psychology of Creativity.- A Gap in Creativity Research.- Some Social Psychological Stories.- A Recurrent Theme: Intrinsic versus Extrinsic Motivation.- 2. The Meaning and Measurement of Creativity.- Previous Approaches to Creativity Definition.- Previous Approaches to Creativity Measurement.- A Consensual Definition of Creativity.- A Conceptual Definition of Creativity.- 3. A Consensual Technique for Creativity Assessment.- The Consensual Assessment of Artistic Creativity.- The Consensual Assessment of Verbal Creativity.- A Summary of Major Findings.- Comparison with Previous Techniques.- Limitations and Future Possibilities.- A Wider Context.- 4. A Theoretical Framework.- Preliminary Assumptions and Observations.- The Components of Creative Performance.- A Componential Framework.- The Intrinsic Motivation Hypothesis of Creativity.- II. Social and Environmental Influences.- 5. Effects of Evaluation on Creativity.- Intrinsic Motivation, Creativity, and the Nature of the Task.- The Basic Research Paradigm.- Impact of Evaluation Expectation.- Impact of Actual Evaluation.- Summary.- 6. Effects of Reward and Task Constraint.- Previous Research.- Effects of Reward of Children's Creativity.- The Interaction of Reward and Choice.- Choice in Aspects of Task Engagement.- Summary.- 7. Social Facilitation, Modeling, and Motivational Orientation.- Social Facilitation Theories: Implications for Creativity.- Evidence on the Social Facilitation and Inhibition of Creativity.- Modeling Influences on Creative Individuals.- Experimental Studies of Modeling.- Motivational Orientation: A Theoretical Analysis.- Motivational Orientation: An Empirical Demonstration.- Summary.- 8. Other Social and Environmental Influences.- Educational Environments.- Work Environments.- Family Influences.- Societal, Political, and Cultural Influences.- Other Influences on Creativity.- Summary.- III. Implications.- 9. Implications for Enhancing Creativity.- Direct Attempts: Creativity-Training Programs.- A Review of Social Influences on Creativity.- Implications for Education and Child-rearing.- Implications for the Arts, the Sciences, and Industry.- 10. Toward a Comprehensive Psychology of Creativity.- Social Psychology of Creativity: Current Status.- Social Psychology of Creativity: Future Directions.- Integrating Theoretical Perspectives.- References.- Author Index.

TLDR: 

Fields of Study: ['Sociology', 'Psychology']

Authors: T. M. Amabile

