corpus id: 229156320, 

Title: WILDS: A Benchmark of in-the-Wild Distribution Shifts

Abstract: Distribution shifts can cause significant degradation in a broad range of machine learning (ML) systems deployed in the wild. However, many widely-used datasets in the ML community today were not designed for evaluating distribution shifts. These datasets typically have training and test sets drawn from the same distribution, and prior work on retrofitting them with distribution shifts has generally relied on artificial shifts that need not represent the kinds of shifts encountered in the wild. In this paper, we present WILDS, a benchmark of in-the-wild distribution shifts spanning diverse data modalities and applications, from tumor identification to wildlife monitoring to poverty mapping. WILDS builds on top of recent data collection efforts by domain experts in these applications and provides a unified collection of datasets with evaluation metrics and train/test splits that are representative of real-world distribution shifts. These datasets reflect distribution shifts arising from training and testing on different hospitals, cameras, countries, time periods, demographics, molecular scaffolds, etc., all of which cause substantial performance drops in our baseline models. Finally, we survey other applications that would be promising additions to the benchmark but for which we did not manage to find appropriate datasets; we discuss their associated challenges and detail datasets and shifts where we did not see an appreciable performance drop. By unifying datasets from a variety of application areas and making them accessible to the ML community, we hope to encourage the development of general-purpose methods that are anchored to real-world distribution shifts and that work well across different applications and problem settings. Data loaders, default models, and leaderboards are available at this https URL.

TLDR: WILDS is presented, a benchmark of in-the-wild distribution shifts spanning diverse data modalities and applications, and is hoped to encourage the development of general-purpose methods that are anchored to real-world distribution shifts and that work well across different applications and problem settings.

Fields of Study: ['Computer Science']

Authors: P. W. Koh, Shiori Sagawa, H. Marklund, Sang Michael Xie, Marvin Zhang, Akshay Balsubramani, Weihua Hu, Michihiro Yasunaga, Richard L. Phillips, Sara Beery, J. Leskovec, A. Kundaje, E. Pierson, S. Levine, Chelsea Finn, Percy Liang

