corpus id: 4202768, 

Title: In-datacenter performance analysis of a tensor processing unit

Abstract: Many architects believe that major improvements in cost-energy-performance must now come from domain-specific hardware. This paper evaluates a custom ASIC-called a Tensor Processing Unit (TPU)-deployed in datacenters since 2015 that accelerates the inference phase of neural networks (NN). The heart of the TPU is a 65,536 8-bit MAC matrix multiply unit that offers a peak throughput of 92 TeraOps/second (TOPS) and a large (28 MiB) software-managed on-chip memory. The TPU's deterministic execution model is a better match to the 99th-percentile response-time requirement of our NN applications than are the time-varying optimizations of CPUs and GPUs that help average throughput more than guaranteed latency. The lack of such features helps explain why, despite having myriad MACs and a big memory, the TPU is relatively small and low power. We compare the TPU to a server-class Intel Haswell CPU and an Nvidia K80 GPU, which are contemporaries deployed in the same datacenters. Our workload, written in the high-level TensorFlow framework, uses production NN applications (MLPs, CNNs, and LSTMs) that represent 95% of our datacenters' NN inference demand. Despite low utilization for some applications, the TPU is on average about 15X–30X faster than its contemporary GPU or CPU, with TOPS/Watt about 30X–80X higher. Moreover, using the GPU's GDDR5 memory in the TPU would triple achieved TOPS and raise TOPS/Watt to nearly 70X the GPU and 200X the CPU.

TLDR: This paper evaluates a custom ASIC-called a Tensor Processing Unit (TPU)-deployed in datacenters since 2015 that accelerates the inference phase of neural networks (NN) and compares it to a server-class Intel Haswell CPU and an Nvidia K80 GPU, which are contemporaries deployed in the samedatacenters.

Fields of Study: ['Computer Science']

Authors: N. Jouppi, C. Young, Nishant Patil, David A. Patterson, Gaurav Agrawal, R. Bajwa, Sarah Bates, Suresh Bhatia, N. Boden, Al Borchers, Rick Boyle, Pierre-luc Cantin, Clifford Chao, Chris Clark, Jeremy Coriell, Mike Daley, Matt Dau, J. Dean, Ben Gelb, Taraneh Ghaemmaghami, R. Gottipati, William Gulland, R. Hagmann, C. Richard Ho, Doug Hogberg, John Hu, R. Hundt, D. Hurt, Julian Ibarz, A. Jaffey, Alek Jaworski, Alexander Kaplan, Harshit Khaitan, Daniel Killebrew, A. Koch, Naveen Kumar, Steve Lacy, J. Laudon, James Law, Diemthu Le, Chris Leary, Zhuyuan Liu, Kyle A. Lucke, Alan Lundin, G. MacKean, A. Maggiore, M. Mahony, K. Miller, R. Nagarajan, Ravi Narayanaswami, Ray Ni, K. Nix, Thomas Norrie, Mark Omernick, Narayana Penukonda, Andy Phelps, Jonathan Ross, Matt Ross, Amir Salek, E. Samadiani, C. Severn, G. Sizikov, Matthew Snelham, Jed Souter, D. Steinberg, Andy Swing, Mercedes Tan, Gregory Thorson, Bo Tian, H. Toma, Erick Tuttle, Vijay Vasudevan, Richard Walter, Walter Wang, Eric Wilcox, D. Yoon

